1.) Introduction to Slavic and the early texts; why is Slavic a good language-family to apply such a technique to?
    The dawn of the written tradition is close enough to the break-up of Slavic unity that they called it "językъ slověnьskъ", and they thought it acceptable to get a speaker from Thessaloniki (who spoke an extremely peripheral Southern Bulgarian dialect) to translate the Bible etc. for the Moravian king ( Vita Constantini 14: Растиславⸯ бо моравⸯскꙑ кнеѕь богомь ѹстимь съвѣть сътвори съ кнеѕꙑ своими моравлꙗни и посла къ царѹ Михаилꙋ глаголѥ. | людемь нашимь поганⸯства се ѡтврьгⸯшимь и по христїанⸯскꙑ се законь дрьжещемь. ѹчителꙗ не имамꙑ такого. иже ни бꙑ въ свои ѥзꙑкь истѹю вѣрꙋ христїанⸯскꙋю сказаль), for inhabitants who would've spoken some West Slavic dialect (the evidence of the Kiev Folia, which is the only piece of evidence we have from this original Moravian mission, lead Schaeken to conclude that it reflects a "verlorengegangenen slovakisch-kroatischen Übergangsdialekt" (Schaeken 1987:117-118). I think it more likely to reflect the original dialect of Konstantin, but hastily adapted to the local Moravian dialect only in the most conspicuous features, like *ћ > /c/ (Winslow 2022:320))

(Make a point when referring to the map that Slavic is actually no longer spoken either in Thessaloniki or the Hungarian/Austrian bit of Moravia, so we shouldn't expect the dialects reflected by manuscripts to be simple ancestors of modern varieties and thus the manuscripts are of paramount importance in uncovering the linguistic facts about the past, because only in them can be found indications of how people spoke; the varieties reflected therein could have no modern descendants, like West Saxon Old English)

2.) Trying to do phonological investigations with the currently-available digital tools:
    corpora which are just digitised texts are no good because the aim of phonological investigations is to find out how the reflexes of certain sound-groups actually appear in the text, thus you can't search just the surface-level text unless you know in advance all the different ways the refelx you're interested in is going to be spelt (and this will massively expand the results of your searches to include a load of forms that reflect different LCS sound-groups).
    Secondly the words in these texts often have diacritic marks, and in TOROT for example they have made no effort to strip those out when you do searches, so you will often be scuppered when searching for just two or more letters.

    TOROT has many digitised texts (about half of canonical OCS and lots of Old Russian) but is annotated primarily for the purposes of syntax and even higher-level linguistic domains like """information status""": they have lemmatisation and morphology-tagging, but this means that the closest you can get to being able to do phonology-focused searches is to search for specific grammatical categories and/or specific lemmas (base-words) where you think your reflex would be (which again will get you loads of stuff you don't want).

    Case-study: a few years ago I was very interested in the problem of why the Glagolitic alphabet, i.e. the first of the Slavic alphabets, invented by Cyril presumably to reflect his Thessalonikan Slavic dialect, had no equivalent of the Cyrillic 'jotated a' letter:


3.) Solution? We need a way of indexing the words in a text that is regular and predictable, and retains all the information necessary to give rise to the surface-forms: the obvious choice is some reconstructed proto-stage

4.) Morphological innovations:



5.) Check Kortlandt's nasal article on Psal. Sin,; wrongly tagged възнѣсѩ is at Psalm 46
    How would we check this without phonological annotation? True, you can search Eckhoff's corpus for Nom. masc./nt singular Present Active Participles  (in reality you barely can anymore because here old 2007-era site with the full detailed search form has been killed, and Syntacticus doesn't have such detailed search functionality), but these back-vowel forms only occur on class 1 consonant-stemmed verbs, so if you just search for these PRAPs what you're interested in will get swamped by results containing the more common fronted *ę variant of this ending (show screenshot of TOROT searching of Psal. Sin.)


7.) Eckhoff uses statistical methods to guess the Part-of-Speech lemmatisation and morphology-tags of new or not-yet-manually-annotated texts, as a prerequisite step for automatic syntactic parsing using MaltParser, and to help speed up manual annotators.
She does it by a combination of training a statistical tagger called TnT from the year 2000 on the already-tagged corpus to assign part-of-speech and morphology-tags to words, and then she just looks in the existing corpus for forms which share the same spelling as the unknown words, and then if they share the same part-of-speech as what TnT assigned, she just copies the morphology and lemmatisation over, then if that doesn't work she as a last resort compares the form to just the lemma-list and progressively chops a letter off the end until it matches the start of a lemma.
All I care about is the lemmatisation and morphology-tagging, b


8.) Automatic conversion to normalised OCS from nothing: John 2 is pretty good
8.) Automatic conversion to Old Russian - use John 21 p.2 as an example of totally automatic (not even manually tagged), and talk about the process of denasalising /ę/ and how it causes scribes to mix up the malyj jus and jotated <a> and <a> after shipyashchij up. Then pull up Eckhoff's Ostromir's gospel and just point out the почахъ vs чѧдо comparison to prove that my completely artificial automatic OR is not bad


9.) Because Eckhoff's corpus is not focused on the lowest-level linguistic domains, she doesn't have to care as much about accuracy: one or two letters out of place is unlikely to affect the meaning of the word or its morphological assignment, so inaccuracies go unnoticed. Given that her annotations are quite useful (esp. for learners) and her corpus is reasonably accessible online, many people who are interested in phonology might go to her texts and, if there are inaccuracies, get a misleading impression of its phonological character.
    For example, the Kiev Folia is most likely the single oldest Slavic written text in existence and the one OCS text which is closest to the original set of translations which Cyrill and Methodius undertook, and probably its most important feature is it's the only Old Church Slavonic text that correctly preserves the reduced-vowels (/ь ъ/), but Eckhoff's version contains at least instances of incorrect or missing jers that would lead the investigator to believe that the jers were gone from the dialect underlying the text.
    (I also found quite a few mistakes in her version of Zogr. when I went through the first Book of it, so we can reasonably conclude that she can't be trusted.)
For me, though, who wants to know what the actual dialect underlying these texts actually sounded like, such ianccuracies are totally unacceptable because they would lead to directly incorrect conclusions; thus corpora which are developed by people like me are a much likely to be accurate and therefore a sound basis for investigations into all higher linguistic-domains.
