1.) As first introductory article: Phonological annotation: whole-manuscript Late Common Slavonic reconstruction as a


1.) vowel-contractions, class 5.4 *-aje- endings in verbs, long adj. *ajego etc.; Marianus tendency to contract the verb ending to /aa/ vs Supr., can this be slotted into Bethin's theories about the tolerance for bimoraic syllables in more central Slavic (cf. the Ukr. long adjective endings, Pol. bać się, stać etc.). Can there be done an completely comprehensive study of the OCS manuscripts in this regard that hasnt already been done

2.) Verb-class innovations esp. in Suprasliensis: жідѣа҅хѫ (autoreconstructor gives this as židaaxǫ so this strange reanalysis of žьdati as a class 1 verb with the imperfect ending stuck directly on the (deviantly lengthened) žid- stem is noteworthy); Supr. also has those imperfect perfectives with habitual meaning

3.) [bit boring] Is Jagić's jer-umlaut real? (there are so many possible environments for it that I doubt a comprehensive study couldve been done in the way that would be piss easy for me)

4.) One possibly dead-end study, but one only possible with my technology, would be one into the three different <i> letters; I use it as a quick demonstration on Marianus


3.1.) One advantage to highlight is how palatalised /ŕĺń/ before /i,e/ etc. can be easily found even when often no orthographic marking all distinguishes these from plain /rln/; especially useful when investigating secondary palatalisation (cf. Shevelov 1964 on the Proto-Ukrainian documents)

2X звѣрѣ spellings in Supr. show moving from masc_i > jo-stems (not an ideal example because palatal /r/ existed already in the system, but still not bad)

Why does OCS show PV2 after *sk in words like ӣю̄деӣстѣӣ, ӣцѣлѧтъ but never in о̄скв̄рънѧт < *skvŕ̥n- ?

4.) Assemanianus: why such shit jers, yet preserved root-aorists, extremely conservative orthography (KF spelling of /y/, occasional jat' after shipjashchiy hanging around, nearly flawless /dz/). If the shitty jers point to a more Northwestern location (like Marianus), why is there no trace of ǫ > /o/, but instead signs of a Bulgarian merger (front-nasal spellings after palatals)?

5.) When I solve the neural-network problem, a dedicated article on that method vs both Rabus' and Eckhoff 2016 and my adaption of Eckhoff's methods needs to be written, using Assemanianus as the test-case

6.) similarly an in-depth study on Assemanianus' phonology and morphology needs to be produced with reference to all previous scholarship on it, using my autoreconstructed data as a secret weapon allowing quick and easy testing of previous claims and discovery of new patterns

7. my class 13 (umerti etc.) imperfects should have non-metathesised full-grade stems оумерѣахъ etc., but these never ever occur, suggesting that a wholesale reshaping which occurred after the (very recent) metathesis. This must have implications for the dating of the rise of the imperfect as a unitary tense; as it must have been newly formed based on the aorist stem (which after metathesis ended on a vowel to which the -ax- imperfect formant could be added). Alternatively, and as might perhaps be suggested from the spellings with unetymological jer (Supr. мь҆рѣꙿхѫ), these imperfects are based on the zero-grade present stem *mŕ̥-, but that in itself would be irregular and a deviance. Diels p.236 has more discussion, where he also mentions the class 16 мелꙗаше (*meĺǢaše) with an unexpected present-stem in the imperfect

