Adjectives and Participals will be stored in Wiktionary in the long-form masc. sg. so need to have those endings added
The alternation between -oj and -yj endings depending on stress in Ru. adjectival lemma-forms might mean both have to be added
Chu.Sl. doublets (щ, metathesis etc.) will need to be produced for everything, unless the TOROT lemmas can be marked as being Ch.Sl. somehow (i.e. by marking the ones which my matcher only matched after trying the Ch.Sl. forms)
    - this might be an unsolvable problem if too many words contain contradictory combinations of Ch.Sl. and native features, and trying every possible combination for each word could quickly spiral

Reduction of imperative-ending from *-i[te] to *ь[te] in certain verb-classes (убей налей мой готовьте etc.) - indications are that this happened before the jer-shift, otherwises there's no motivation from the rest of the paradigm to give /e,o/ here; they have to be purely phonologically regular strong-jers
class 17 2nd, 3rd imperatives need to have their endings shortened before application of the Jer Shift


--the restoration of what was word-initial LCS *ě (before j-prothesis) in non-OCS in words like *jěsti is unetymological and, given its retention in nouns like язва, must be due to analogy with prefixed forms. Thus we can't easily detect it unless the TOROT lemmas already include this replacement (TOROT seems to have both, e.g. ясти and ѣсти, but I doubt it's consistent).

*bv and other clusters etymologically should be totally simplified in LCS but often get reintroduced, especially by modern Russian
--Might possibly need to check the TOROT lemma for PV3 signs and use a flag to check whether to do applyPV3, rather than having a big if-statement of all the lexemes I think should do it.

I can't apply PV2 to only stems because certain reflexes of PV3 are actually converted by the PV2 regex (e.g., like > lice), because my grammar basically views these as a morphological-replacement of the -o desinence with -e (seeing as post-PV3 there strictly speaking was no ban on palatal + back-vowel)

Certain /i/ reflexes of jat', i.e. сидеть, двести (dissimilation?)

Will need to reduce *ejǫ/*ojǫ in the Isg. fem. nominals

Some paradigms like azъ and ty in my system will correspond to multiple Wiktionary lemmas (though I think pronouns are not properly scraped from wiktionary anyway)

The modern Russian ja-stem Isg. is -ой under stress and -ей otherwise, which may represent a spread of *ojь everywhere seeing as the unstressed pronunciation of that would in most places be identical to *ejь

Will need to add two separate alternative desinence endings for i-stems: one that become masc jo-stems and one that converts masc to fem_i stems.
The plurals are the same for both, so in the new 143{} map I have put Gsg, Dsg. and Lsg. with the CSR jo-stem endings in both the masc. and fem. slots (to cope with ones that change gender).

tilde ~ used as marker of softness in preceding consonant

