This paper reports on work that a layer of annotation on top of the TOROT collection of old Slavic corpora, namely a reconstruction for each word of its Late Common Slavonic ancestors. It is argued that this annotation will help speed up phonological and morpohlogical research, which otherwise have little use for the kind of annotation we find in annotated treebanks like TOROT.

I should note at the outset that while I am familiar with the Slavic data, I am not a philological specialist of this branch. Unfortunately, this makes it hard for me to evaluate what I see as the biggest potential problem of this work, which I will detail below, in the hope that someone more competent can judge whether the problem is real.

A guiding principle behind the PROIEL annotation was that it should involve as little analysis as possible and make as uncontroversial assumptions as possible, because the annotation will serve as assumptions in future analyses based on the corpora. Hence the choice of very surface-oriented morphological annotation (as mentioned also in this paper) and even syntax - although it is harder to be pre-theoretical in this domain, dependency syntax comes as close as possible.

Similarly, any analysis based on the annotation reported in this paper will have to take for granted the LCS reconstructions that are offered. It therefore becomes crucial that the annotation reflects scholarly consensus - if there is no consensus, it is porbably better not to annotate. (In the same way, the PROIEL annotation of information structure avoided difficult notions like topic and focus and instead annotated information status, cf. Haug, Eckhoff and Welo 2014.) The author does indeed claim that the reconstruction is mostly uncontroversial and widely agreed-upon, but also notes that the aim is to provide a reconstruction for every word, which means that they need to take a position also on controversial issues. To this end, section 1 offers a justification of the choices made. And this section in fact makes up half of the paper, which suggests to me as a non-specialist that things are not as uncontroversial as it is claimed. This should be checked thoroughly. To take an example: in section 1.4.4., it is shown that there is a significant discrimination in the use of a particular grapheme between original word-initial /je-/ and (foreign) /e-/ in the Codex Suprasliensis. Therefore, the reconstruction uses non-jotated *e- for the foreign borrowings, but this in turn means that any work based on this data will automatically assume this distinction. In this particular case, it is probably harmless, but there are many moving parts, as the extent of section 1 shows, and it can be hard for other researchers to track all the assumptions that go into the construction. 

Fortunately, the time-depth of the reconstruction is not very deep and this is what makes it at all possible. If there are too many analogical/morphological changes between the surface form and the reconstructed LCS form, the annotation becomes unreliable. One such case is mentioned in section 1.6, but there is no information about how common they are. This should again be judged by a specialist. Some other types of morphological change (e.g. change to s-aorist) are discussed in section 2.3.

Section 2 then explains how the system works. The system reads the TOROT lemma, part-of-speech and morphology tags and then produces the reconstructed form of the given inflection class. It is not clear to me where the inflection class information comes from, as this is not present in the original annotation - probably it was added in this work. Although it is not said explicitly, I assume that the lemma stem forms are also reconstructed "manually" by the author.

Section 3 "Benefits and potential for future studies" is very brief. This comes as a huge disappointment, as this is what we really want to know after having gone through the details of section 1 and 2. Morever, none of the cases are fleshed out in any detail. I think this part must be much more developed before the paper can be accepted. In fact, I could see a revised version that actually started with a case study and then introduced the database and the method later. This would probably make the paper more interesting for the average TPhSoc reader. As it stands, the paper is probably too much of a "resource paper" that could work in something like Language Resource and Evalutation Journal, but that would stick out in TPhSoc. I therefore recommend revise and resubmit. 


