The paper introduces a computational tool generating reconstructed pre-forms of Old Church Slavonic and Old East Slavic forms based on the annotated texts in the TOROT-corpus. The authors suggest that these reconstructed forms matched with their attested counterparts constitute a useful resource for studying topics mainly related to Slavic historical phonology.

While I believe that the introduced computational tool is potentially useful for future research, I do not think that the article in its current form is suitable for publication in Transactions of the Philological Society. The reasons for this evaluation are laid out below.

(1) Transactions of the Philological society is a journal with a clear linguistic scope. The article, on the other hand, does not include an original linguistic study, but introduces a digital tool which, moreover, seems to be work-in-progress. Therefore, I believe that it is more suitable for publication in journals like Language Resources and Evaluation or Scripta & e-Scripta (the latter would probably reach the largest audience of users interested in computational tools for Slavic languages). To make the article suitable for publication in Transactions, it should contain at least one linguistic case study making use of the introduced tool and thereby demonstrating its benefits. Although the authors repeatedly cite data from their database, this is not equivalent to an original linguistic study. Their examples concern phenomena that have been well known for decades and have been studied repeatedly (examples can be found in handbooks also) and the authors fail to present any new results based on the application of their tool.

(2) As will be seen from my comments made directly in the manuscript, the authors are very selective in their choice of secondary literature. This fails to give credit to the at least one and a half centuries of philological study of OCS texts. In some cases, readers could even get the impression that a phenomenon has been discovered only recently (especially, in a journal that addresses an audience beyond specialists in Slavic philology and historical linguistics). I do not believe that it is the authors’ intension to give such an impression, but judging from this article only, it seems to me that they are not very well acquainted with the relevant literature. Considering some of the shortcomings of the article (see in the PDF), I also find the tone of the article at some places rather judgmental with regard to earlier publications or opinions (e.g., when criticizing Mareš's and Severjanov's editions in fn. 6 or when calling Meillet's idea "ludicrous" in fn. 33).

(3) The authors introduce an idosyncratic reconstruction of a stage in the history of Slavic that they refer to as "Late Common Slavic". They do not provide any detailed discussion as to why they do not adopt one of the existing reconstructions (of which there are several). Alleged stages like "Early Common Slavic" and "Late Common Slavic" are generally poorly defined, and it seems like an unfortunate choice to apply them in this study considering that a widely accepted clear definition of what is to be understood as Proto-Slavic and Common Slavic is available. Thus, Holzer (1995, 1997) (bibliographical data are provided in the comments in the PDF) defines Proto-Slavic as the uniform Slavic language spoken around 600 AD while Common Slavic refers to the following period of the Slavic dialect continuum. The latter period is usually assumed to have ended with the shift of the so-called jers. The authors are, of course, free to choose any reconstruction (I cited Holzer here because this author provides the clearest definitions), but I believe that it would benefit their own cause if they applied one that is already established. This would allow the authors to shorten the discussion of the employed system of Common Slavic and it would also be more in line with their claim that their resource is meant to increase the possibilities for studying the phonological history of Slavic. The latter moreover seems at odds with the statement that the goal "of [their] LCS reconstructions is to act as an index which allows reflexes in texts to be found, not to be a historically realistic description of some actually-existing LCS dialect" (p. 38). Why not use an existing reconstruction which claims to be historically realistic? In any case, the discussion of the properties of “the authors’” Common Slavic is unnecessarily long in several places. For instance, the discussion of consonant clusters at morpheme boundaries between prefixes and roots could be shortened significantly (Section 1.5). Finally, I think that the notational system chosen by the authors is infelicitous. This concerns, for instance, the use of *ћ and *ђ for the jotation reflexes of Proto-Slavic *tj and *dj (p. 34). The use of the letter-diacritic combination Ǣ for marking an archiphoneme should in my opinion also be reconsidered. It could easily be avoided by employing a reconstruction of Proto-Slavic where *ē and *ā had not yet merged in the position after palatals.

(4) Data are not represented according to the standards followed in philological and linguistic journals. For instance, examples should be provided with exact references where to find them in the manuscripts. Hyperlinks to a webpage are nice to have, but important information must be available in the text. Moreover, not all examples are transliterated and translated as common practice in the major journals in the field of Slavic linguistics and certainly in a journal addressing a general (historical-)linguistics audience.

I have made further comments directly in the PDF where I have also added bibliographic references.

Mainly because of the reason stated in (1) above, my recommendation is to reject the arcticle in its current form. However, I also recommend reconsidering the article for publication should the authors decide to submit a new version containing a linguistic case study.
